now top EU officials have joined a
growing chorus of condemnation after an
Israeli air strike on a School Compound
killed dozens in Gaza City the eu's top
Diplomat Joseph borell expressed his
horror at the attack which gazan
officials say killed more than 90 people
Sheltering in the school Egypt and Qatar
are demanding an urgent investigation
the US has said it is quote deeply
concerned about the strike Israel has
repeatedly claimed that Hamas uses
schools as cover in the wake of the
October 7th Terror
attacks tabin School reduced to ruins
after an Israeli air strike in
Gaza according to an official from
gaza's Hamas run government around 6,000
displaced people were seeking shelter in
the compound at the time Witnesses say
the school came under attack while
people were offering Dawn
prayers Israel as usual didn't give a
warning
it strikes regardless of whether they're
children women young or older
adults these were peaceful people in the
mosque people were praying washing some
were sleeping upstairs including
children women and older
people the Missile hit them without any
warning first one missile then another
one we recovered them as body
parts the Israeli military has confirmed
the strike saying it hit a Hamas command
and control center embedded within the
site it says numerous steps were taken
to mitigate the risk of harming
civilians many of the casualties were
rushed to Gaza City's Al Ali
hospital they dropped a missile on them
while they were just preing
fear God people fear God Arabs fear
God the strike comes at a time when
mediators Egypt Qatar and Saudi Arabia
are pushing to resume ceasefire talks
but Egypt's foreign Ministry says that
quote the deliberate killing of Gaza
civilians shows Israel has no intention
of ending the
war Alexandra Saia is a is head of
humanitarian policy and advocacy at the
organization save the children I asked
her what she has heard from her contacts
in
Gaza my colleagues this morning told me
that there are still bodies trapped
under the rubble of this destroyed
School families have been picking up
pieces of their dismembered families
family members in plastic bags there are
reports of more than a hundred people
killed um but it's difficult to verify
these numbers because families are
essentially picking up body parts this
is the deadliest attack that we've seen
likely since October on a school um but
we are seeing Israeli attacks on schools
almost every single week um in recent
months um and it's important to note
that the filies that were Sheltering in
the school were there because they have
nowhere else to go um so many buildings
homes in Gaza have been destroyed parts
of Gaza are uninhabitable and this is
the only place that families had to to
try to seek Refuge um it's just
absolutely horrific and unfortunately
what we're seeing is a normalization of
something that should never be
normal with schools a a regular Target
is there any safe space left in
Gaza there is no safe space in Gaza
there's nowhere safe for people to go I
mean even you know save the children has
um an office um in in Middle Gaza and
even there a few meters away from our
office we were we there were air strikes
and so there's no safe space in Gaza
there's no safe space for children
there's no safe space for Aid workers
you know this is the conflict that has
seen the most number of Aid workers
killed on record um so these attacks are
happening where children are are are
Sheltering where families are Sheltering
and where AID organizations are
providing Services n Gaza is is in Ruins
um nearly everybody has been displaced
at least once since the start of the war
many of them of course children are we
looking at a Lost Generation
here we I mean children what what we
hear from their parents is that the the
children have no hope for the future
it's not only that we're seeing children
killed every day but they're being
maimed they're losing their Li lims due
to the use of explosive weapons in
densely populated areas and when they um
lose their limbs there's no physio
therapy for them there's no um medical
care that's able to rehab help them
rehabilitate um and on top of that the
infrastructure that children rely on uh
to prosper in the future have been
destroyed a record number of schools
have been destroyed hospitals have been
destroyed they've been deprived of
essential supplies uh to provide medical
assistance we are still seeing Aid
including medical supplies obstructed
from coming in and obstructed from from
being uh distributed across Gaza to
people in need and so it what we hear
every single day is that parents say
their children have no hope for the
future especially when there is
absolutely no sign that things are
slowing down well thank you for joining
us on DW news that is Alexandra say from
save the children we appreciate your
time
today let's speak to DW's correspondent
Tanya Kramer joining us now from
Jerusalem Tanya we've just seen some of
the footage of the aftermath of the air
strikes there what has Israel said about
this well Israel's military maintains
that it was a a place where Hamas and
Islamic Jihad operatives were using
basically uh as their Command Center the
school and mosque compound where people
were forced to shelter many people have
been displaced so many times and they're
Sheltering in those schools now a
statement this morning already said that
the IDF the military had struck with
position guided missiles um it also
climed we heard this also repeatedly in
other strikes Hamas for operating within
uh civilian shelters uh basically uh
taking people as human Shields and the
military spokes person also questioned
the numbers that were given out by the
uh uh health authorities in Gaza about
the number of casualties now having said
that this is not the first strike that
we are seeing the un's human rights
office released a statement today and
said they have recorded over 20 strikes
on schools in in the last month alone
since July 4th and uh they also have
said you know uh while it is of course
would be a grave violation if uh
according to International humanitarian
law if armed groups use these schools
also Israel has an obligation to
International humanitarian law and they
have to look at questions like
proportionality and uh taking uh
precautions so what we're hearing from
eyewitnesses there on the ground uh
there are these casualties there are
many injured they have Burns uh many
have lost limbs and this comes of course
on the backrop of a very difficult
situation in gaza's hospitals that have
difficulties to deal with s such mass
casualty uh events T today Egypt said
that Israel's quote deliberate killing
of unarmed Palestinians shows that it
lacks a political will to end the war in
Gaza what impact do you think this
strike will have on ceasefire talks we
are expecting a new round this
Thursday well I'm not so sure what
difference this strike will make as as
we've seen other strikes uh on schools
uh in recent uh weeks uh but of course
it underlines the need for a ceas and
we've heard these condemnations
especially also here in the region from
Egypt from Jordan from the United Arab
Emirates but also from the EU but of
course for people in Gaza these are
mainly words it doesn't really change
the situation uh for them so last week
we heard from the mediators from Qatar
from Egypt uh also from the United
States that they have rescheduled talks
uh or scheduled talks for next Thursday
we also got a confirmation from uh the
Israeli side from the prime minister's
office that they will send a delegation
but we're also hearing from prime
minister Benyamin Netanyahu that the war
will only end when Hamas is removed from
power we also hear from sources within
Hamas that they're also studying a
proposal but it's very difficult at this
point to understand where those talks
stand uh you know whether they have any
chance of success also given the
situation in the region where the region
is waiting for some sort of or possible
retaliation by hasbullah or Iran uh
against Israel but it's all connected of
course uh what is going on in Gaza so
it's very hard to understand uh where
those talks will be going well thank you
so much for bringing us up to speed
there that is Tanya Kramer our
correspondent reporting today from
Jerusalem